# The Path Forward

I've done it. I've completed an incredible journey and have come out of it a greater father, husband and professional. In January 2022 I started my CodeFellows journey by signing up for their basic intro 101 class. I had never written code before, let alone have the capacity to distinguish between what was HTML, CSS, or JavaScript. I was about as knowledgeable as a stick in the mud. I was encouraged by friends that - "If I didn't immediately hate it then I could really learn and become proficient." - So, after 101, I decided to stick it out for the remainder of the program… 9 months later I've become a software developer! It wasn't without its struggles, that's for sure, and I've truly learned more about myself from this process. Arguably, I've learned more about myself than I have about code. But that's for me to continually sift out and work through.

I've had to relearn how to learn in an academic as well as a self-informed way. It's been years since I've properly sat in a class, and I've needed to buckle-down and focus for hours to keep my head and hands to the task. I've had to humble myself and #continually# ask for help… Let me pause here for a moment. ##ASK FOR HELP##. Regardless of where you are at, whether it's in learning software development or anywhere else in your life, if you're stuck, and have felt overwhelmed by your circumstance, ask. I have also gained a greater endurance to engage in small details. I am convinced that taking the position of being a lifelong learner is the greatest posture to take in life. This has been vital to my journey into software development and a position that will continue to be flexed as I step foot into the wild west of the job hunt. Which brings me to my greatest challenge. - The whiteboard exam. -

The whiteboard finals were a real challenge for me. Throughout my time in CodeFellows, I've taken a lot of time to write my code challenges and visualize my problems. And when one only has 40 minutes to complete the challenge it truly stretched me. Not that 40 minutes isn't enough time, it is! Rather, it's the thought of time & the internal feelings of pressure to say the right things the right way, and the real challenge - one that many people have - the feelings of being an imposter. That I don't belong. That I don't know what I actually DO know. All of these things and more felt like an anvil around my neck as I struggled to even complete the simplest of challenges.

Going Forward it is my plan to not only continue to pursue the challenge of facing my discomfort in the whiteboarding space, but also to challenge my own feelings of imposter syndrome. I am thankful to have a space and a dev friend group who seeks the best in me and challenges me to write cleaner code and ask me thoughtful questions about my own thought processes and how I articulate problems. To become job ready I will seek mentors who have been where I am and have come out of it better! It's not enough to simply play with my own projects and work from Github, I must be connecting with others within the industry and learn from them. I also MUST continue to challenge myself via these code challenges. In order to gain fluency I ought to dedicate time in my day to work on DSAs and video myself doing them so to go back and learn what worked and what didn't.

I am proud of the work that I've done, but this is only the beginning. I have a lot more work to do in order to crush these feelings of inadequacy and incompetence. I have dedicated my life to learning and growing through discomfort. This process will be no different, and when I do get a job, the process won't stop. It will likely be a space of exponential growth and learning. In order to gain the fluency that is needed at the professional level, I will work as if this is my profession. I will not stop challenging myself to learn and understand. I will trust in myself and that I know enough to learn!

This is my path forward. Actionable movement to progress and understanding!

Good luck future Marcus, I believe in me!

